README.md, before:

# Runa Developer Hub

This repo contains the documentation for the Runa Developer Hub aka API Docs. This includes the OpenAPI specs for published versions of the API. We use [Mintlify](https://mintlify.com) as a docs framework and hosting provider.

## Writing

Read https://mintlify.com/guides

From [content types](https://mintlify.com/guides/content-types)

- Our **tutorial** is the 'Getting started' culminating in making your first order
- Our **how-to** are the feature guides
- Our **reference** is the 'API Reference' pages generated from the API spec
- Our **explanation** are the other pages in 'API Reference' and some pages under 'Best Practices'

## Development

Install JS packages with `pnpm install` then run

```
pnpm dev
```

A local server will then serve the docs at http://localhost:3000
Hot-reload is supported

## Mintlify

See [Mintlify docs](https://mintlify.com/docs) for more information. The `docs.json` file is the configuration file. Pages are written in MDX, a markdown variant with JSX support.

## Publishing Changes

- Make your changes on a branch
- Open a PR and verify the changes from the preview
- Get some review
- Merge to main and the changes are automatically deployed to production

Commit message:

Align usage of level 2 headings across all pages

README.md, after:

# Runa Developer Hub

This repo contains the documentation for the Runa Developer Hub aka API Docs. This includes the OpenAPI specs for published versions of the API. We use [Mintlify](https://mintlify.com) as a docs framework and hosting provider.

## Writing

Read https://mintlify.com/guides

From [content types](https://mintlify.com/guides/content-types)

- Our **tutorial** is the 'Getting started' culminating in making your first order
- Our **how-to** are the feature guides
- Our **reference** is the 'API Reference' pages generated from the API spec
- Our **explanation** are the other pages in 'API Reference' and some pages under 'Best Practices'

### Content rules

- Do not use level 1 headings (`#`) in the content, use level 2 headings (`##`) instead. Level 1 headings are reserved for the page title and break the table of contents.

## Development

Install JS packages with `pnpm install` then run

```
pnpm dev
```

A local server will then serve the docs at http://localhost:3000
Hot-reload is supported

## Mintlify

See [Mintlify docs](https://mintlify.com/docs) for more information. The `docs.json` file is the configuration file. Pages are written in MDX, a markdown variant with JSX support.

## Publishing Changes

- Make your changes on a branch
- Open a PR and verify the changes from the preview
- Get some review
- Merge to main and the changes are automatically deployed to production
