features/estimate.mdx, before:

---
title: Estimate the price of an order
description: Check what you will be charged for an order before you pay
icon: calculator-simple
---

## Order pricing

The total price of an order is determined by the face value and discounts of the items you're purchasing, plus any additional fees that apply to the order.

## Estimate order price

To provide you with a clear breakdown of the order price before you confirm your purchase the [estimate order](/reference/2024-02-05/endpoint/orders/estimate) endpoint can optionally be used to get your estimated order price including fees. It accepts a request similar to the one used for creating an order and responds with a detailed breakdown of the estimated price for both the overall order and each individual item within the order.

<Note>
  Please note that the order price estimate endpoint does **not** support
  Embedded FX orders.
</Note>

Below is an estimate request and response for an order with 2 order items.

The response contains fields that are related to the order price.

- Price of each item is presented in the `price` field.
- The `total_price` is the sum of all order item prices

<CodeGroup>
```json Request
{
  "payment_method": {
    "type": "ACCOUNT_BALANCE",
    "currency": "GBP"
  },
  "items": [
    {
      "face_value": 10,
      "products": {
        "type": "SINGLE",
        "value": "AMZ-GB"
      }
    },
    {
      "face_value": 10,
      "products": {
        "type": "SINGLE",
        "value": "AMZ-GB"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

```json Response {6,13-14,21-22}
{
  "payment_method": {
    "type": "ACCOUNT_BALANCE"
  },
  "currency": "GBP",
  "total_price": 20,
  "items": [
    {
      "products": {
        "type": "SINGLE",
        "values": "AMZ-GB"
      },
      "face_value": 10,
      "price": 10
    },
    {
      "products": {
        "type": "SINGLE",
        "values": "AMZ-GB"
      },
      "face_value": 10,
      "price": 10
    }
  ]
}
```

</CodeGroup>

Commit message:

Add note about estimate endpoint being unsupported in playground

features/estimate.mdx, after:

---
title: Estimate the price of an order
description: Check what you will be charged for an order before you pay
icon: calculator-simple
---

<Info>
  The estimate endpoint is currently **unsupported** in the [playground
  environment](/reference/2024-02-05/playground).
</Info>

## Order pricing

The total price of an order is determined by the face value and discounts of the items you're purchasing, plus any additional fees that apply to the order.

## Estimate order price

To provide you with a clear breakdown of the order price before you confirm your purchase the [estimate order](/reference/2024-02-05/endpoint/orders/estimate) endpoint can optionally be used to get your estimated order price including fees. It accepts a request similar to the one used for creating an order and responds with a detailed breakdown of the estimated price for both the overall order and each individual item within the order.

<Note>
  Please note that the order price estimate endpoint does **not** support
  Embedded FX orders.
</Note>

Below is an estimate request and response for an order with 2 order items.

The response contains fields that are related to the order price.

- Price of each item is presented in the `price` field.
- The `total_price` is the sum of all order item prices

<CodeGroup>
```json Request
{
  "payment_method": {
    "type": "ACCOUNT_BALANCE",
    "currency": "GBP"
  },
  "items": [
    {
      "face_value": 10,
      "products": {
        "type": "SINGLE",
        "value": "AMZ-GB"
      }
    },
    {
      "face_value": 10,
      "products": {
        "type": "SINGLE",
        "value": "AMZ-GB"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

```json Response {6,13-14,21-22}
{
  "payment_method": {
    "type": "ACCOUNT_BALANCE"
  },
  "currency": "GBP",
  "total_price": 20,
  "items": [
    {
      "products": {
        "type": "SINGLE",
        "values": "AMZ-GB"
      },
      "face_value": 10,
      "price": 10
    },
    {
      "products": {
        "type": "SINGLE",
        "values": "AMZ-GB"
      },
      "face_value": 10,
      "price": 10
    }
  ]
}
```

</CodeGroup>
